---
Title: "Some Thoughts on the Cloudflare Incident Happened a Few Days Ago"
Date: 2022-06-25T10:49:00+11:00
Summary: A few days ago, a significant incident disrupted Cloudflare's network, affecting numerous vital websites and even causing a temporary outage on Discord. Subsequently, I came across tweets confirming that the issue indeed pertained to Cloudflare. The following day, Cloudflare promptly delivered a comprehensive incident report on their official blog, aligning with my anticipated standards of transparency and thorough analysis. In this context, I aim to document my reflections on this event.
draft: false
---

A few days ago, a significant incident disrupted Cloudflare's network, affecting numerous vital websites and even causing a temporary outage on Discord. Subsequently, I came across tweets confirming that the issue indeed pertained to Cloudflare. The following day, Cloudflare promptly delivered a comprehensive incident report on their official blog, aligning with my anticipated standards of transparency and thorough analysis. In this context, I aim to document my reflections on this event.

## The Incident and Its Causes:

As a DevOps professional, I am particularly interested in the Cloudflare's incident happened a few days ago. Based on the reputation of the company, I expected them to quickly release a detailed report about it, which they did(https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-outage-on-june-21-2022/). Cloudflare is a leader in its industry and has many excellent programmers and network engineers. Any modifications to their network have a set of release mechanisms. According to the article, changes to network settings require a request ticket, multiple rounds of review, a dry run, a small subnet release, and a step-by-step release in other networks. Despite these safeguards, the incident occurred during the latter part of a rollout that introduced a new architecture. This incident serves as a reminder that operational errors can happen to even the most innovative companies. It brings to mind past instances when major platforms like Twitter and Facebook experienced extended downtimes, illustrating the inherent challenges of maintaining websites and APIs.

## Cloudflare's Response

Apart from examining the incident's cause, it is crucial to evaluate Cloudflare's response strategy and how to prevent a recurrence. As a DevOps professional, this is a critical aspect to consider when dealing with operational incidents. In the blog, Cloudflare has proposed three solutions to address the issue. First, they updated their release policy and introduced a new architecture to mitigate the problem from a program perspective. From an architectural standpoint, they eliminated the possibility of incorrect sorting and technically ensured that the same problem would not reoccur. Finally, from an automation perspective, they introduced commit-confirm rollback mechanisms to expedite issue resolution. The timeline of the incident was also transparent, including details of engineers' actions in reverting changes. 

Incidents like the one at Cloudflare, especially in companies with robust architectural designs, are often a sign that multiple factors have contributed to the problem. It's analogous to the design of airplanes, where accidents are exceedingly rare, but when they occur, they often reveal many underlying issues. Cloudflare, as a critical infrastructure provider on the internet, is not immune to such challenges.

However, it's commendable that Cloudflare has been exceptionally transparent about this incident. They provided a thorough analysis of its causes and the steps taken to prevent a recurrence. This transparency demonstrates a genuine commitment to addressing the issue. I am quite satisfied with Cloudflare's response. In a rapidly evolving company, the introduction of many new technological architectures often increases the possibility of errors. This is understandable, but my expectations for Cloudflare are high. This incident revealed some shortcomings in Cloudflare's operations. I recall that Netflix developed an open-source software called "Chaos Monkey" to randomly shut down virtual machines to test their system's reliability. I believe that this mindset is necessary for every DevOps professional -- Can the reliability of a component still be guaranteed if it has a problem? If it can't, how can the impact be minimized?

## Some final thoughts

The Cloudflare incident and its response serve as a valuable case study for DevOps professionals. It highlights the need for continuous testing and vigilance in ensuring the reliability of systems, even in organizations with strong architectural designs. The introduction of chaos engineering principles, as exemplified by Netflix's "Chaos Monkey," can help professionals anticipate and mitigate the impact of system failures. In a world where technology evolves at breakneck speed, maintaining reliability remains a fundamental challenge for organizations like Cloudflare, making transparency and continuous improvement all the more crucial.